What data science skills are most valuable on the job market? Because only a small subset of our sample includes salary information, it is not possible to for us to estimate the monetary value of specific skills. However, we can make several important claims about the state of the data science job market. These claims are provisional, because our sample is small and not representative of the population of data science job listings in the United States. However, it seems reasonable to us that similar results would be found in a larger representative sample.

Some data science skills are more frequently sought than others. The most frequently-sought skills include expertise in machine learning, Python, data analysis, and SQL. The only soft skill to make the top twenty is communication. While R is included in the top twenty most frequently sought skills, there is a large gap between the fraction of listings in which it appears compared to Python. 

Employers seek out versatile candidates. Most employers seek out candidates with experience in 5 to 10 of the skills we analyzed. The number of skills listed in postings is skewed right, which shows that some employers are asking for a very broad skillset from candidates. Further analysis is required to understand the difference in job responsibilities between a listing requesting five or fewer specific skills, versus one seeking ten or more. Perhaps employers listing many skills are doing so to ensure their listings appear as results for as many data science job search queries as possible.

A broader skillset may not increase a candidate’s salary. While we obtained salary information for only a small subset of our sample, there was no apparent relationship between the number of skills appearing in a posting and the listed salary. This suggests that employers expect a tradeoff between depth and breadth of skill in candidates. That is, candidates with expertise in fewer skills are expected to possess deeper knowledge, while candidates with experience in a greater range of skills may be placed in more generalist roles.

Greater experience may not increase a candidate’s salary, but 3-5 years is commonly sought. Among our sample, there was a reluctance among employers to seek out candidates new to the field. Employers also seem not to advertise specifically for candidates with a decade or more of experience. Regardless of a candidate’s experience, we found no relationship between experience and salary in our small sample.
