Join a team recognized for leadership, innovation and diversity
Who We Are
Honeywell is a Fortune 100 company with global sales surpassing $40B and has been one of Fortune’s Most Admired Companies for over a decade. Through innovation, the Company brings together the physical and digital world to tackle some of the toughest societal and business problems – making the world a more productive, safe, and sustainable place.
The business is organized into five primary groups: Aerospace, Buildings, Performance Materials and Technologies, Safety and Productivity Solutions, and the Connected Enterprise. Honeywell specializes in things that are critically connected - beyond smart phones and laptops, we make the kinds of connections that keep cities working, planes flying, plants running, and workers safe. Our unique capabilities, over a century in the making, bring together data, expertise, and technology to connect people, processes, and assets.

Honeywell is charging into the Industrial IoT revolution with the establishment of Honeywell Connected Enterprise (HCE), building on our heritage of invention and deep, on-the-ground industry expertise. HCE is the leading industrial disruptor, building and connecting software solutions to streamline and centralize the assets, people and processes that help our customers make smarter, more accurate business decisions. Moving at the speed of software, we are creating, innovating and delivering solutions fast, challenging the way things have always been done, piloting new ways for all of us to work, and expecting our successes to set new standards for our customers and for Honeywell.

Honeywell International is building a world that’s safer and more secure, more comfortable and energy efficient, more innovative and productive. For more information, please visit Honeywell.com or follow us @HoneywellNow.
Who You Are
We’re looking for a new team member who is motivated by cracking tough challenges with data, trained in problem solving, and with an unending thirst for learning.
As a Senior Data Scientist, you will join a high-performing, global team, and assist with designing, developing, and deploying data driven solutions for all Honeywell business groups and functions. You will work closely with application architects to integrate results into operational platforms including containerized microservices and distributed compute and storage architectures.
Additionally, the Senior Data Scientist role is expected to work within Honeywell to identify opportunities for new growth and efficiencies based on data analyses both in adjacencies based on previous engagements, as well as larger industry developments.Specific ResponsibilitiesDevelop data modeling, mining, pattern analysis, data visualization and machine learning solutions to address customer needsFoster relationships with business team members by being proactive, displaying a thorough understanding of the business processes and by recommending innovative solutionsCommunicate project output in terms of customer value, business objectives, and product opportunityPromote data science methods and processes across functionsWork with our businesses and infrastructure teams to develop a strategy that will clearly outline how our enterprise platforms can enable business growth & productivity
You must have:
Master’s degree in Computer Science, Engineering, Applied Mathematics or related field
Minimum of 5 years of Python programming experience
Minimum of 3 years of Data Science prototyping experience
Minimum of 3 years of experience with distributed storage and compute tools (e.g. Spark)
Minimum of 2 years of bringing prototypes to production with CI/CD pipelines and monitoring
We value:
PhD degree in Computer Science, Engineering, Applied Mathematics or related field
Experience with Streaming Analytics
Experience with developing and deploying Natural Language Processing/Understanding applications
Experience with Recurrent Neural Network architectures
Experience with Image Analytics
Experience with SQL
Experience with Tableau
Experience working with remote and global teams
Results driven with a positive can-do attitude.
Additional Information
JOB ID: HRD116521
Category: Engineering
Location: 715 Peachtree Street, N.E.,Atlanta,Georgia,30308,United States
Exempt
Honeywell is an equal opportunity employer. Qualified applicants will be considered without regard to age, race, creed, color, national origin, ancestry, marital status, affectional or sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, disability, nationality, sex, or veteran status.
