Job detailsSalary$114,717 - $149,129 a yearFull Job DescriptionDepartment: Department of Health And Human ServicesAgency: Centers for Disease Control and PreventionJob Announcement Number: HHS-CDC-DH-21-11038242SALARY RANGE: $114717.0 to $149129.0/Per YearOPEN PERIOD: 2021-03-10 to 2021-03-23SERIES & GRADE: GS-14/14AGENCY MARKETING STATEMENT:

The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) is the agency Americans trust with their lives. As a global leader in public health, CDC is the nation's premier health promotion, prevention, and preparedness agency. Whether we are protecting the American people from public health threats, rese arching emerging diseases, or mobilizing public health programs with our domestic and international partners, we rely on our employees to make a real difference in the health and well-being of people here and around the world. This position is located in the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), Center of Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), Deputy Director for Infectious Diseases (DDID),National Center for HIV/AIDS, Viral Hepatitis, STD & TB Prevention (NCHHSTP), Division of HIV/AIDS Prevention-Surveillance and Epidemiology (DHAP-SE), Quantitative Sciences and Data Management Branch (QSDMB), Atlanta, GA. CDC is an Equal Opportunity Employer.JOB SUMMARY:

The incumbent will provide a broad range of statistical support, including the statistical design of epidemiological and field studies, the development and application of new statistical methods in the analysis of these studies, and the statistical investigation of issues related to preventing and treating HIV infection to physicians, epidemiologists, behavioral scientist and other researchers.DUTIES:

As a Mathematical Statistician (Direct Hire), you will: Design statistical components of research studies to estimate effects and test hypotheses related to division research. Implement new procedures requiring the innovative use of existing statistical software such as SAS or SUDAAN or the development of new software in SAS, R or other high-level languages. Represent CDC at national and international conferences on statistical research related to HIV. Assist in planning, coordinating and reviewing statistical data analysis and is available as a consultant for staff within the division. Responsible for the review of the statistical validity of studies and data analyses done by branches within the division.REQUIREMENTS:

US Citizenship is required. Background Investigation is required. E-Verify: If you are selected for this position, the documentation that you present for purposes of completing the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Form I-9 will be verified through the DHS "E-Verify" System. Federal law requires DHS to use the E-Verify System to verify employment eligibility of all new hires, and as a condition of continued employment obligates the new hire to take affirmative steps to resolve any discrepancies identified by the system. The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services is an E-Verify Participant. Direct Deposit: All Federal employees are required to have Federal salary payments made by direct deposit to a financial institution of their choosing. All qualification requirements must be met by the closing date of the announcement. One-year probationary period may be required. Travel, transportation, and moving expenses will be paid: No Bargaining Unit Position: No Drug Screening Required: No Recruitment Incentive may be authorized: No Annual Leave for non-federal service may be authorized: Yes Research position: No Promotion potential: No Supervisory position: No Public Trust/Moderate Background Investigation (5) is requiredQUALIFICATIONS REQUIRED:

Basic Qualifications: You must have a degree that included 24 semester hours of mathematics and statistics, of which at least 12 semester hours were in mathematics and 6 semester hours were in statistics. OR Combination of education and experience: that includes at least 24 semester hours of mathematics and statistics, including at least 12 semester hours in mathematics and 6 semester hours in statistics, as show in A above, plus appropriate experience or additional education. In addition to meeting the Basic Qualifications above, the applicant must also meet the Minimum Qualifications as stated below: Minimum Qualifications: Applicants must have at least one year of specialized experience at or equivalent to the GS-13 in the Federal service as defined in the next paragraph. Specialized experience is experience which is directly related to the position which has equipped the applicant with the particular knowledge, skills and abilities (KSAs) to successfully perform the duties of the position to include experience in providing a broad range of statistical support including the statistical design of epidemiologic or field studies, the development and application of new statistical methods in the analysis of these studies, or the statistical investigation of issues related to public health.. Experience refers to paid and unpaid experience, including volunteer work done through National Service programs (e.g., Peace Corps, AmeriCorps) and other organizations (e.g., professional; philanthropic; religious; spiritual; community, student, social). Volunteer work helps build critical competencies, knowledge, and skills and can provide valuable training and experience that translates directly to paid employment. You will receive credit for all qualifying experience, including volunteer experience.HOW YOU WILL BE EVALUATED:

Additional selections may be made within the same geographical location CDC-wide. The utilization of shared certificates within multiple Centers of the Center of Disease Control and Prevention may be used from this vacancy announcement for specialties to include but not limited to: Applied Epidemiology, Behavioral Epidemiology, Chronic Diseases, Emergency Preparedness and Response, Emerging Infectious Diseases, Environmental Health, HIV/AIDS, Immunization, Infectious Diseases (e.g. Viral, Parasitic, etc.), Influenza, Malaria, Non-communicable Diseases, Outbreak Investigations, Sexually Transmitted Diseases (STDs), Surveillance, Tropical Medicine, Tuberculosis (TB), Viral Hepatitis, and/or Zoonotic Diseases. NOTE: This vacancy will be filled through OPM's direct-hire authority. Veterans' Preference and traditional rating and ranking of applicants do not apply to positions filled under this announcement. Please click here https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/direct-hire-authority/#url=Governmentwide-Authority for more information on OPM's authorization of direct-hire authority. This vacancy is also being announced concurrently with vacancy announcement HHS-CDC-MP5-21-11038238 under merit promotion procedures. Please review that announcement to see if you are eligible for consideration. NOTE: Applicants must apply separately for each announcement in order to be considered. "Additional selections may be made for similar positions across the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) within the local commuting area(s) of the location identified in this announcement. By applying, you agree to have your application shared with interested selecting official(s) at HHS. Clearance of CTAP/ICTAP will be applied for similar positions across HHS." Once the application process is complete, a review of the resume and supporting documentation will be made and compared against your responses to the assessment questionnaire to determine if you are qualified for this job. If, after reviewing your resume and/or supporting documentation, a determination is made that you have inflated your qualifications and/or experience, you may lose consideration for this position. Please follow all instructions carefully. Errors or omissions may affect your eligibility. Your qualifications will be evaluated on the following competencies (knowledge, skills, abilities and other characteristics).
Advising and Consulting (3)Analytical Planning and SpecificationCustomer ServiceData Analysis and InterpretationInterpersonal SkillsOral CommunicationPublic Health KnowledgeQuantitative Theories and MethodsResearch Presentation and PublicationSelf-DirectionStatistical Software LiteracyWritten CommunicationBENEFITS:
OTHER INFORMATION:
This position is being filled through Direct Hire Authority for this occupation and is open to all US Citizens. Vacancies will be filled through OPM's Direct Hire Authority. Veterans' preference and traditional rating and ranking of applicants do not apply to positions filled under this announcement. All applicants who meet the minimum qualification requirements will be forwarded to the selecting official for consideration. Applications received as a result of job fairs, recruitment events, and emergency hiring mechanisms in support of this hiring initiative will also be accepted during the duration of the direct-hire authority. For more information on OPM's authorization of Direct Hire Authority, please visit: https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/direct-hire-authority/ If you are a veteran with preference eligibility and you are claiming 5-points veterans' preference, you must submit a copy of your DD-214 or other proof of eligibility. If you are claiming 10-point veterans' preference, you must also submit an SF-15, "Application for 10-Point Veterans' Preference" plus the proof required by that form. For more information on veterans' preference see http://www.fedshirevets.gov/job/vetpref/index.aspx. Males born after December 31, 1959 must be registered or exempt from Selective Service (see http://www.sss.gov). For information on "People with Disabilities" please visit http://opm.gov/disability/PeopleWithDisabilities.asp
and https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/disability-employment/getting-a-job/sampleschedaletters.pdf. Interagency Career Transition Assistance Program (ICTAP): For information on how to apply as an ICTAP eligible see http://opm.gov/rif/employee_guides/career_transition.asp#ictap. To be well-qualified and exercise selection priority for this vacancy, displaced Federal employees must be rated at 85.0 or above on the rating criteria for this position. Former and present Peace Corps personnel may be considered to fill vacancies. Peace Corps personnel are eligible for consideration if you have completed at least 36 months of continuous service, without a break in service of 3 days or more. This requirement is consistent with section 7(a) of the Peace Corps Act (22 U.S.C. 2506), which pertains to the appointment of Peace Corps staff (not volunteers) and is applicable within 3 years after separation from qualifying service with the Peace Corps. A copy of your SF-50 is required to support your request. Peace Corps Volunteers may be considered to fill vacancies. Executive Order 11103 provides eligibility for appointment in the competitive service for any person who is certified by the Director of the Peace Corps as having served satisfactorily as a Volunteer or Volunteer Leader under the Peace Corps Act and who passes such examination as the Office of Personnel Management may prescribe. To view the questionnaire, click on the following link: https://apply.usastaffing.gov/ViewQuestionnaire/11038242 If you are unable to apply online or need to fax a document(s), view the following link for information regarding an Alternate Application.HOW TO APPLY:

To apply for this position, you must complete the online application and submit the documentation specified in the Required Documents section.
A complete application package must be submitted by 11:59 PM (EST) on03/23/2021 of this announcement to receive consideration. To begin, click Apply to access the online application. You will need to be logged into your USAJOBS account to apply. If you do not have a USAJOBS account, you will need to create one before beginning the application. Follow the prompts to select your résumé and/or other supporting documents to be included with your application package. You will have the opportunity to upload additional documents to include in your application before it is submitted. Your uploaded documents may take several hours to clear the virus scan process. After acknowledging you have reviewed your application package, complete the Include Personal Information section as you deem appropriate and click to continue with the application process. You will be taken to the online application which you must complete in order to apply for the position. Complete the online application, verify the required documentation is included with your application package, and submit the application. To verify the status of your application, log into your USAJOBS account (https://my.usajobs.gov/Account/Login), all of your applications will appear on the Welcome screen. The Application Status will appear along with the date your application was last updated. For information on what each Application Status means, visit: https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/how-to/application/status/. If you cannot apply online: You are encouraged to apply online. If you are unable to apply online, please use the Alternate Application link listed in the Additional Information section of this vacancy announcement. Applicants are strongly encouraged to apply online if at all possible. Applying online, through your USAJOBS account, will expedite the application process and allow you to check your application. If you utilize the Alternate Application method, your USAJOBS account will not display this application and you will not receive status updates.REQUIRED DOCUMENTS:
To apply for this position, you must submit a complete Application Package which includes: Your résumé showing work schedule, hours worked per week, dates of employment and duties performed. Other supporting documents: Cover Letter, optional Veterans Preference Documentation, if applicable Transcripts are required.* Schedule A Eligibility Letter, if you are applying as a Schedule A candidate Career Transition Assistance Program documentation, if applicable (e.g., Certification of Expected Separation, Reduction-In-Force Separation Notice, or Notice of Proposed Removal; SF-50 that documents the RIF separation action; and most recent performance appraisal). *Note: You may submit an unofficial transcript or a list of college courses completed indicating course titles, credit hours, and grades received. An official transcript from an accredited educational institution is required if you are selected for the position. Failure to submit any of the above mentioned required documents may result in loss of consideration due to an incomplete application package. It is your responsibility to ensure all required documents have been submitted. For Résumé and Application Tips visit: https://help.usajobs.gov/index.php/Tips.WHAT TO EXPECT NEXT:
Once the online questionnaire is received you will receive an acknowledgement email that your submission was successful. The most highly qualified candidates will be referred to the hiring manager for further consideration and possible interview. We expect to make a selection within 45 days of the closing date of this announcement. You will receive notice via email once this process is completed (generally 4-6 weeks).AGENCY CONTACT INFO:

CDC HELPDESK
1600 Clifton Road NE
Atlanta GA US 30333Telephone: (770) 488-1725Email: HRCS@CDC.GOV
