Historically, the travel requirement for this position has ranged from 80-100%. The safety and well-being of our people continues to be the top priority, and our decisions around travel are informed by government COVID-19 response directives, recommendations from leading health authorities, and guidance from a number of infectious disease experts. For now, all KPMG business travel, international and domestic, is currently restricted to client-essential sales/delivery activity only. At some point in the future and with the safety of people as the critical factor, the travel requirement will likely increase, possibly to previous levels, but KPMG is committed to balancing client requirements with new delivery capabilities.
The KPMG Advisory practice is currently our fastest growing practice. We are seeing tremendous client demand, and looking forward we don't anticipate that slowing down. In this ever-changing market environment, our professionals must be adaptable and thrive in a collaborative, team-driven culture. At KPMG, our people are our number one priority. With a wealth of learning and career development opportunities, a world-class training facility and leading market tools, we make sure our people continue to grow both professionally and personally. If you're looking for a firm with a strong team connection where you can be your whole self, have an impact, advance your skills, deepen your experiences, and have the flexibility and access to constantly find new areas of inspiration and expand your capabilities, then consider a career in Advisory.
KPMG is currently seeking a Lead Specialist to join our Federal Advisory practice.
Responsibilities:
Lead Data Science and Machine Learning intensive engagements with a primary focus on client delivery and project management of teams with Data Scientists, Data Engineers, Business Consultants and translate advanced business analytics problems into technical approaches that yield actionable recommendations, in diverse domains (product development, marketing research, supply chain, technology process, and public policy)
Undertake necessary statistical analysis using Natural Language Processing to mine unstructured data, using a variety of methods (document clustering, topic analysis, names entity recognition, document classification, and sentiment analysis) as part of the overall Machine Learning initiative set forth for the engagement
Analyze structured and unstructured data, understand and implement algorithms, and support analysis using advanced statistical and mathematical methods form emerging areas in pattern analysis, machine learning, deep learning, data mining, econometrics, and operations research
Lead workshops around emerging technologies in associated areas of Machine Learning, with both business clients and technical clients utilizing processes and best practices to plan, lead, and execute delivery of artificial intelligence engagements across different areas (technology, financial services, emerging tech, government agencies - federal, state, local, and utilities)
Lead in a fast-paced and dynamic environment utilizing virtual and face-to-face interactions; manage complex work streams, expectations, budgets, deliverables, risks, and multiple responsibilities using structured approaches for operational excellence while communicating results to executive level audiences
Plan and manage objectives and key deliverables using analytics processes to mitigate risks in data, modeling, validation, and delivery
Qualifications:
A minimum of five years of technical data science experience; U.S. Federal government consulting experience preferred
Bachelor's degree from an accredited college/university; Masters of PhD in Data Science, Engineering, Computer Science preferred
Experience performing data science from data discovery, cleaning, model selection, validation, and deployment; experience coding artificial intelligence methods using object-oriented programming in a software development process, and ability to restructure, refactor, and optimize code for efficiency
Expert problem-solving ability through the use and/or development of data science algorithms, models, testing, etc.; ability to utilize a diverse array of technologies and tools as needed, to deliver insights, such as R, Python, Spark, Hadoop and emerging Cloud Capabilities on Azure, GCP and/or AWS; experience with command-line scripting, data structures, and algorithms
Ability to travel as required to support firm engagements
Initial project is located in ALBANY, GA
Ability to obtain a U.S. Federal government security clearance within a reasonable period of time, which requires U.S. Citizenship
KPMG LLP (the U.S. member firm of KPMG International) offers a comprehensive compensation and benefits package. KPMG is an affirmative action-equal opportunity employer. KPMG complies with all applicable federal, state and local laws regarding recruitment and hiring. All qualified applicants are considered for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, disability, protected veteran status, or any other category protected by applicable federal, state or local laws. The attached link contains further information regarding the firm's compliance with federal, state and local recruitment and hiring laws. No phone calls or agencies please.
