Deloitte Services LP includes internal support areas such as Marketing and Communications, Human Resources/Talent, Information Technology, Facilities Management, and Financial Support Services.
Solution Architect - Data & Analytics
If you are passionate about how digital technology is transforming business, plan your next career move with Deloitte’s ITS Application Studios.
Deloitte’s breadth, depth, and scale, combined with our relentless passion for innovation create powerful opportunities to help our clients and our own organization stay ahead of change, deliver impact that matters, and transform complexity and disruption into lasting value.
Our teams are already leveraging Artificial Intelligence, analytics and cutting-edge capabilities to transform how we serve clients and operate our business. Moreover, the team is also actively exploring nascent applications such as IoT, Blockchain and AR/VR.
Work You’ll Do:
In your role, you will be responsible for envisioning and developing new digital products. You will execute day-to-day product development activities across design, development, stakeholder communication, technology vendor management and delivery.
Responsibilities:
Participating in collaborative development of data management, business intelligence and analytic architecture standards and best practices and facilitating understanding and adherence to those standards.
Reviewing and approving 3rd-party vendor product integration and solution architecture based on established enterprise application strategy.
Providing technical and architecture thought leadership.
Guiding creation of project and application architecture deliverables that are consistent with architecture principles, standards, methodologies and best practices.
Defining technical evaluation criteria for product and technology selection and determining technical approaches to ensure solutions result in a coherent systems design.
Applied research and development, prototyping, and vendor evaluations
Providing support / guidance to development teams during the analysis, development, and testing processes.
Working with business clients and product owners to review business drivers, needs, and strategies to anticipate future business / technology needs.
Communicating implications of architectural decisions, technology costs, benefits and implementation requirements to business and IT Leadership.
Defining and validating non-functional (technical) requirements and establishing traceability between requirements and application architecture/design.
Providing input to the development of project initiation documents including objectives, scope, approach, estimates and deliverables.
Participating in, and leading when needed, production troubleshooting and ‘War Room’ Activities.
Staying abreast of changes in 3rd-party vendor landscape and providing guidance and input to long-term vendor strategy
Instilling a culture of execution, operational excellence and accountability.
Seeking and capitalizing on the opportunities to improve productivity, improving time-to-market, improving solutions quality and improving cost effectiveness.
Anticipating barriers to change and creating opportunities to remove them.
Creating a culture that is based on knowledge sharing and learning from best practices.
Exhibiting high level of professional flexibility and volunteering innovation and new ideas.
Mentoring technical leads and developers.
The Team
Deloitte has revolutionized software and application delivery, creating a model that’s scalable, cost-effective, and leverages a progressive and responsive talent structure. As Deloitte’s primary internal development team, the application studios deliver innovative digital solutions to businesses, service lines, and industries with proven bottom-line results.
The 570+ applications in Deloitte’s enterprise application portfolio are created to solve highly complex business problems and lead in practitioner productivity in an increasingly mobile, interconnected, and rapidly evolving landscape. From true enterprise apps enhancing daily productivity to business-enabling systems, ITS Deloitte Application Studios teams enable Deloitte professionals—across business lines—to serve clients with distinction.
Information Technology Services (ITS) helps power Deloitte’s success. ITS is the engine that drives Deloitte, which serves many of the world’s largest, most respected organizations. We develop and deploy cutting-edge internal and go-to-market solutions that help Deloitte operate effectively and lead in the market. Our reputation is built on a tradition of delivering with excellence.
The ~2,200 professionals in ITS deliver services including:
Security, risk & compliance
Technology support
Infrastructure
Applications
Relationship management
Strategy
Deployment
PMO
Financials
Communications
Deloitte Application Studios (DAS)
Deloitte Application Studios (DAS) is the internal software and applications development team responsible for delivering leading-edge technologies to Deloitte professionals. Their broad portfolio includes web and mobile productivity tools which empower our people to log expenses, enter timesheets, book travel and more, anywhere, anytime. DAS enables our client service professionals through a comprehensive suite of applications across the business lines. In addition to application delivery, DAS offers full-scale design services, a robust mobile portfolio, cutting-edge analytics, and innovative custom development.
Qualifications:
Required Qualifications
Bachelor's degree in Computer Science, Business Administration or equivalent educational or professional experience and/or qualifications.
5+ years of strong experience in data warehouse application development with solid understanding of advanced analytics concepts is required, with experience in distributed architectures and designing for scalability preferred
Strong understanding of data modeling and data architecture
Experience in dealing with multiple projects and cross-functional teams, managing multiple tasks/assignments with staggered due dates and deadlines through effective time management skills.
Ability to identify and communicate issues/risks applying technical and root cause analysis skills is a must.
Must be a self-motivated and pro-active analytics technical leader and possess strong decision making, problem solving and analytical skills.
Ability to work within an agile development environment.
Limited immigration sponsorship may be available.
Travel up to 5% (While 5% of travel is a requirement of the role, due to COVID-19, non-essential travel has been suspended until further notice.)
Preferred Qualifications:
Experience with Data Discovery & Classification tool
Experience with the following Technologies/Methodologies preferred:
Agile development environment especially SCRUM using SAFe agile methodology.
MS SQL Server, SAP HANA, MS Azure Cortana suite or similar database, business intelligence and analytic platforms
Excellent communication, presentation, influencing, and reasoning skills to earn support of business leaders, technology leaders, colleagues, and vendor representatives.
Capable of building sustainable relationships with colleagues and key individuals.
Creativity and ability to think outside-the-box while defining sound and practical solutions.
Desire to take the initiative, moving projects/ideas forward with clarity.
Adept negotiation skills in high-pressure situations.
Leadership skills to indirectly lead cross-functional teams towards common solutions.
How you’ll grow
At Deloitte, our professional development plan focuses on helping people at every level of their career to identify and use their strengths to do their best work every day. From entry-level employees to senior leaders, we believe there’s always room to learn. We offer opportunities to help sharpen skills in addition to hands-on experience in the global, fast-changing business world. From on-the-job learning experiences to formal development programs, our professionals have a variety of opportunities to continue to grow throughout their career.
