Job detailsJob TypeFull-timeFull Job Description11793BR
People
WHAT YOU'LL DO
BCG is undertaking a transformation to reinvent the way we recruit as a firm – across our core consulting business, digital businesses, other adjacencies, and Business Services Team (BST) roles. Our objective is to ensure we remain competitive and are able to continue to attract and hire diverse top talent, given our ambitious growth targets over the next 5 years. For this, our recruiting model needs to be diversified, de-risked, future-proofed, and scalable.
As a Data Scientist in our Global Recruiting Data Science & Analytics team, you will report to the Head of Global Recruiting Data Science & Analytics and bring our recruitment operations to the next level through the utilization of appropriate data science methodologies. You solve essential challenges around attracting, developing, retaining, and motivating the best talent. You focus on key issues such as predicting great hires or employees at risk of leaving and supporting BCG’s employee engagement and diversity and inclusion goals and objectives. As part of this role you will:
Bring together our organization’s data, as well as external data and research, to help our business leaders understand and act on talent issues
Seek to understand talent-related business problems and help frame them into actual research questions that can be answered with data
Utilize appropriate data science methodologies toward attracting, hiring, developing, and retaining qualified talent
Data-driven and highly analytical, you translate data and insights into meaningful visualizations and stories to drive strategy, action, and decision-making at executive levels, within HR, and with people managers
Use platforms, programming, and systems to establish single-source data to be leveraged across the business to support insights and improved decision-making
Apply big data techniques to small data problems
Lead data-driven and evidence-based research to support delivery of people metrics, reporting, and advanced and predictive analytics
Align research priorities with business priorities and take a customer-focused mindset in working with stakeholders
Leverage academic expertise, industry knowledge and talent analytics trends to address practical business challenges
Collaborate with and communicate broadly within the Global Talent Acquisition function, HR, IT, and the business
Develop data science skills as new or improved techniques arise, and continue exploration of emerging methods and technologies in the analytics space
YOU'RE GOOD AT
Ideal candidates for this role would have an:
Ability to clearly explain technical concepts to people with non-technical backgrounds; excellent communication & interpersonal skills
Understanding of the external people analytics landscape and trends.
Ability to working autonomously and as part of a team in a complex environment
YOU BRING (EXPERIENCE & QUALIFICATIONS)
Candidates for this role should have:
Graduate’s degree in a quantitative field with ideally a focus on people/organizational research e.g., data science, statistics, economics, quantitative psychology, organization behavior etc.
A minimum of 5 years of relevant work experience
Experience in research design, visualization techniques, and analysis approaches in which you manage and analyze both structured and unstructured data.
Experience in advanced statistical methods around hypothesis testing, clustering, machine learning predictions, and text mining.
Experience modeling high dimensional data.
Experience with tools and languages such as SQL, R, Python, Tableau, or Visier, and in the design and implementation of data pipelines that support the continuous delivery of insight.
Other preferred qualifications include:
Experience with high volume recruiting, ATS systems, recruitment functions & candidate experience
YOU'LL WORK WITH
BCG’s HR team works to attract, develop, excite, deploy, and retain the best people in the market. Those in human resources jobs manage the life cycle of all BCG employees—from hiring top talent and developing their skills to rewarding their contributions and supporting career progression and mobility.
CITY
Atlanta, Boston, London, Madrid, Munich, New Delhi
COUNTRY
Germany, India, Spain, United Kingdom, United States
YOU'LL BE TRAVELLING
Yes (10%)
YOUR EMPLOYEE TYPE IS
Regular
YOUR JOB TYPE IS
Full time
WHO WE ARE
BCG pioneered strategy consulting more than 50 years ago, and we continue to innovate and redefine the industry. We offer multiple career paths for the world’s best talent to have a real impact on business and society. As part of our team, you will benefit from the breadth and diversity of what we are doing today and where we are headed next. We count on your authenticity, exceptional work, and strong integrity. In return we are committed to supporting you in discovering the most fulfilling career journey possible—and unlocking your potential to advance the world.

Our team called Global Services (GS) provides corporate support to business areas such as Finance, Legal, HR, Marketing and IT. This diverse team of experts, operators and specialists represent all levels from Partner to entry level staff, operating across the globe in multiple countries. Global Services is in short, the backbone of BCG.
EQUAL OPPORTUNITY
Boston Consulting Group is an Equal Opportunity Employer. All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, age, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity / expression, national origin, protected veteran status, or any other characteristic protected under federal, state or local law, where applicable, and those with criminal histories will be considered in a manner consistent with applicable state and local laws.
