Job detailsJob TypeInternshipFull Job DescriptionQUALIFICATIONS
University student in a STEM-related field such as computer science with expected graduation date between December 2021 to June 2022; master’s student completing the first year in a non-business degree or 2-year master’s program with less than 2 years of work experience
Strong analytical and problem-solving skills paired with the ability to develop creative and efficient solutions
Ability to work collaboratively in a team environment and effectively with people at all levels in an organization
Deep understanding of statistical and predictive modeling concepts, machine learning approaches, clustering and classification techniques and recommendation and optimization algorithms
Experience in two or more programming languages (R, Python, C++, etc.)
Ability to easily understand the complex algorithm and logic to process data
Experience working with a large volume of data with the ability to solve performance issues
Basic business intuition and clear expertise in analyses with the ability to describe analytic processes including when and why specific approaches are favored
Strong command of English language (both verbal and written)
Willingness to travel
WHO YOU'LL WORK WITH
You will be based in our Atlanta, Boston, Chicago, New York or San Francisco office as part of our Marketing Analytics team.
This team helps clients transform their marketing and sales by leveraging our Periscope technology platform and applying advanced analytics to generate value-creating insights from big data.
Founded in 2007, Periscope® by McKinsey is an award-winning technology platform that enables better commercial decisions by uncovering actionable insights. The Periscope platform combines world-leading intellectual property, prescriptive analytics, and cloud-based tools to provide more than 25 solutions focused on insights and marketing, with expert support and training. It is a unique combination that drives revenue growth both now and in the future. Customer experience, performance, pricing, category, and sales optimization are powered by the Periscope platform.
WHAT YOU'LL DO
You will perform statistical data analyses, data mining and optimizations using multiple tools and techniques to get insights from large complex data sets.
In this role, you will conduct hands-on rigorous quantitative analysis including getting the data, cleaning it (when necessary/relevant) and exploring it for accuracy. Additionally, you'll deploy statistical modeling and optimization techniques most suited for the business problem (using R, Python, SQL, and/or other relevant tools). You will work across multiple industries to advise client teams on analytic methodologies and approaches to address their specific needs.
The duration of this internship is 10 weeks over the summer.
