Job detailsJob TypeFull-timeFull Job DescriptionPLEASE NOTE BEFORE APPLYING: THIS ROLE IS LOCATED IN ATLANTA, GA AND THE CHOSEN CANDIDATE MUST BE LOCATED/RELOCATE HERE AS WELL. IN ADDITION, CODOXO IS NOT ABLE TO OFFER SPONSORSHIP OR ACCOMMODATE ANY CANDIDATES THAT ARE CURRENTLY BEING SPONSORED NOW OR IN THE FUTURE
Do you want to help make healthcare more effective and affordable for everyone? That’s our mission at Codoxo. The U.S. spends more on healthcare than any other country in the world, but not all of the $3.8 trillion goes to real patient care. A significant portion, up to 10% or $380 billion, is lost to fraud, waste, and abuse.
Codoxo’s patented artificial intelligence technology helps healthcare companies and agencies identify and act quickly to control costs. Codoxo now has six AI-powered applications that help every department across health insurance payers proactively bring down costs and reduce fraud, waste, and abuse – so more dollars to toward patient care.
We are seeking a talented Data Scientist with experience in statistical data analytics, working with advanced machine learning algorithms, and solving complex problems. We have built a web-based application that is supported by a large dataset of healthcare data, where various reports are made available to users that have results generated by a variety of machine learning algorithms.
Key Responsibilities
Lead the creation of new detection solutions driven by exploratory data analysis from complex and disparate healthcare datasets
Execute analytical approaches to design, develop, and evaluate methodologies and advanced algorithms that result in the extraction of optimal value from data
Investigate various data, technologies, and methodologies to determine their applicability in solving current problems
Keep abreast of developments within machine learning and apply where appropriate
Work both independently and in a team
Basic Qualifications
Strong knowledge of machine learning models and know their applicability and an understanding of their limitations
MS or PhD in a relevant discipline (Math, Statistics, Computer Science or Engineering
Experience with the design, implementation, and evaluation of statistical predictive models using large datasets
Expert familiarity with machine learning technologies
Proficiency working in a Linux environment and software development in Python
Preferred Skills
Has work experience with building and maintaining big data and mastering techniques of parallel processing on big data
Several years of experience in advanced analytics
Familiarity with the use of cloud computing platforms (e.g., Amazon Web Services)
Experience with large-scale data processing technologies
Experience with healthcare data
