Help us transform patients' lives.
At UCB, we put our heart, soul and skills into making a difference for people living with significant unmet needs. Working together, we blend the best of our talents to deliver thoughtful solutions that patients value. Will you join us in this pioneering adventure?
Within the global IT organization, the Artificial Intelligence group is playing a crucial role in enabling UCB to leverage artificial intelligence to take better decisions, operate more efficiently and create value for patients. We are looking for a unique individual to strengthen our team.
As an Artificial Intelligence Developer / Senior Data Scientist, you will build AI Solutions: you will design and develop analytics workflows with other data scientists, data engineers and developers following an agile methodology.
The role is based in Atlanta (Georgia). Sponsorship is not available for this role.
As an Artificial Intelligence Developer / Senior Data Scientist, you will:Work closely with key partners across the company to understand opportunities and then explore, design and develop an analytics approachExplore and model structured and unstructured datasets to generate insights, and work with domain experts to turn them into actionable recommendationsOptimize and deploy your code into analytics workflows or smart applicationsKeep abreast of new analytics methods that you will share with the wider team and apply to your projects
You see yourself immediately when reading…Both theoretical and hands-on knowledge of statistical modeling and machine learning techniquesExpert-level programming experience using Python to develop data science workflowsLove to craft elegantly simple solutions to complex problemsPassionate about digital technologies in general and AI in particularHigh energy to champion your ideas and thrive in a dynamic, collaborative and startup-like environment; you are creative, perpetually curious and passionate about how different pieces fit together into a coherentA fast paced, changing environment doesn’t scare you. On the contrary, you easily adapt and find creative new opportunities thanks to your can-do attitudeExcellent communication and interpersonal skills, with a fluent command of English
Interested? For this position, you’ll need the following education, experience and skills:
Minimum Qualifications:Master’s degree in Statistics, Mathematics, Computer Science, Engineering or similar field of study is required.2+ years of experience in data science or advanced analytics.Both theoretical and hands-on knowledge of data science techniques such as GLMs, GAMs, tree-based models, survival models, boosting & bagging, time series models (ARIMA, exponential smoothing), neural networks, probabilistic graphical models, dimensionality reduction.Expert-level programming experience with either Python or R experience.
Preferred Qualifications:Hands-on experience developing data science workflows (forecasting, recommendation, prediction, testing, outlier detection, sensor analytics, NLP) experience with deep learning is a plus.
Why you should apply:
Do you want to contribute in bringing real value to patients living with severe diseases while driving innovation forward? Join UCB’s dynamic, inspiring and innovative environment. You will be recognized for impactful performance via a competitive compensation and benefits package and you will enjoy ample personal development opportunities.
Tell us what makes you the perfect match to our team and join one of the most dynamic & forward looking IT organizations in the world.
About Us
At UCB, we come together every day to work, laser-focused, on a simple question: How will this create value for people living with severe diseases? By putting patients at the heart of everything we do, our approach – from discovery to development to delivery – is continuously transformed and designed around patient needs and their journey.
With a team of approximately 7,500 employees worldwide operations in more than 40 countries, we are a global biopharmaceutical company investing more than a quarter of our revenue in cutting-edge scientific research. We are focused on addressing chronic, neurological, immunological, and bone diseases. We are looking for people with passion and empathy who develop a real understanding of patient’s needs and can deliver thoughtful solutions to decisionmakers across the heath care ecosystem.
UCB and its subsidiaries encourage diversity and inclusion in the workplace; we are an Equal Opportunity Employer. We do not discriminate on the basis of race/color/religion/sex/national origin/veteran/disability/age/sexual orientation/gender identity.
