Job detailsSalary$100,000 - $135,000 a yearJob TypeFull-timeFull Job DescriptionTitle: :Sr Data Scientist@ Atlanta, GA
Terms of Hire: Full Time.
Salary: $ 100,000–$135,000/ YR + Benefits.Job description::Job Specific Experience Required/Preferred for the Role:
Master’s degree or higher in mathematics or economics. At least five years employment experience past that masters in a data science or other analytics field.Prior experience deploying models in production. Preferably skill sets in Kubeflow or another distributed ecosystem deployment system for machine learning.Prior experience working for one of the following:
Experience with at least working knowledge on one of the following products (ACE/ADM, Determinator, Cardguard, TRIAD/PowerCurve) ORA cardbrand, focusing on issuing specific capabilities OR issuing productsPrior experience working for one of the big 4 or another management consulting firm, again with emphasis on credit card issuingPreferably located in Atlanta, but open to remote east coast candidates.Either a patent, or speaking roles at major data science conferences (Open Data Science conference, etc.) is a huge plusWhat Part Will You Play?
Designs experiments, perform hypothesis testing, and build various data modelsAnalyzes and mines both structured and unstructured data to drive product centric as well as user-centric insights.Develops and tests analytical solutions to be leveraged by both internal and external clients. Crafts compelling stories; makes logical recommendations; drives informed actions.Applies advanced statistical techniques to understand ecosystems, user behaviors, and long-term trends.Leads and executes independent quantitative research projects, leveraging data from multiple sourcesCreates insightful automated dashboards and data visualizations to track key business metrics, with initial emphasis on issuing business.Uses best practices to understand the data and develop statistical, analytical techniques to build models that address business needs.Not an exhaustive list; other duties as assigned.What Are We Looking for in This Role?
Minimum Qualifications
- Bachelor's Degree - Quantitative Analytics, Statistics, Mathematics, Data Science, or similar discipline
Minimum of two years of working experience as a data scientist in the payments industry OR a minimum of 3 years of working as a data scientist in banking/financial services OR 5 years of working as a data scientist in all other industries.Typically, Minimum 4 Years Relevant ExpDemonstrated experience with sophisticated analytics tools and programming languages (e.g., SAS, SPSS, R, Python, SQL, HiveQL, Spark, Hadoop)Proficiency with visualization platforms such as Tableau, Qlikview, PowerBI, D3, or JavaScriptWhat are the 3-4 non-negotiable requirements on this position?:
- Bachelor's Degree - Quantitative Analytics, Statistics, Mathematics, Data Science, or similar discipline Minimum of two years of working experience as a data scientist in the payments industry OR a minimum of 3 years of working as a data scientist in banking/financial services OR 5 years of working as a data scientist in all other industries. Typically, Minimum 4 Years Relevant Exp Demonstrated experience with sophisticated analytics tools and programming languages (e.g., SAS, SPSS, R, Python, SQL, HiveQL, Spark, Hadoop) Proficiency with visualization platforms such as Tableau, Qlikview, PowerBI, D3, or JavaScript
Prefer experience with Product AnalyticsPatents, published research, and/or conference presentations in the data science field. are a big plus.Experience with building AWS cloud-native data science applicationsExperience in productization of data science productsMaster’s in data science or a related quantitative field. PhD's are also valid but need to have work experience similar to MS candidates.Experiencing building and deploying real-time scoring models into production- Master's Degree - Quantitative Analytics, Statistics, Mathematics, Data Science, or similar discipline
What Are Our Desired Skills and Capabilities?
- Skills / Knowledge - A seasoned, experienced professional with a full understanding of area of specialization; resolves a wide range of issues in creative ways. This job is the fully qualified, career-oriented, journey-level position.
- Job Complexity - Works on problems of diverse scope where analysis of data requires evaluation of identifiable factors. Demonstrates good judgment in selecting methods and techniques for obtaining solutions. Networks with senior internal and external personnel in own area of expertise.
- Supervision - Normally receives little instruction on day-to-day work, general instructions on new assignments.
You Will Enjoy:
An opportunity to be a part of a great culture, an awesome team, a challenging work environment, and some fun along the way!Apply today to learn more and be part of our Growth story.All applications will be kept strictly confidential and once shortlisted, our team will be in touch with you for further discussions.
