At Delta Air Lines, we are continually looking to embrace new technologies and improve the customer experience. To further this objective, we are seeking an AI Software Engineer to be part of a growing AI Software Engineering team. We work on initiatives across the entire business; initiatives range from our complex global operation to the digital customer experience. We're looking for someone who is passionate about developing solutions for real-world, large-scale problems using Artificial Intelligence techniques including deep learning, machine learning, reinforecement learning, and CNNs. This role may also be based in Minneapolis MN.
What would you do? Work with a team of engineers and cross-divisionally with our partners to identify and define business problems suitable for artificial Intelligence Actively participate in developing strategy around which frameworks, technologies and infrastructure our team should use in our solutions, from MVP to scaled applications Build initial prototypes that quickly demonstrate the benefit of Artificial Intelligence in Delta's various business units Evolve and scale AI components and applications to meet business needs for highly available system integrations Build reusable models/solutions for rapid, iteratve development Participate in the planning, creation and execution of automated test cases and load/performance testing Develop an AI first mindset and help democratize AI for Delta
This job might be for you if you are: A doer by default: You are self-motivated and take pride in building great experiences for users, whether they are employees or customers. You are resourceful in finding the data and tools you need to get the job done and have a bias for action. You enjoy working with people and can put yourself in other people's shoes. You're not afraid to ask for help when you need it or help teammates when they need a boost. You believe in strong opinions, weakly held-- you're not afraid to change your opinion in the face of new facts and acknowledge what you don't know. Are intensely curious about finding a solution to the pain-points of our passengers along the entire travel experience Love travelling and can deeply empathize with our customers
What's it like working as part of the AI team? We're a diverse team of engineers, designers and strategists. We believe we can make travel better, because it's complex and doesn't need to be. We partner with business units on specific initiatives, but also run our own initiatives, including democratizing innovation throughout Delta and researching the effects of disruptive trends in our industry
Please include in your application/cover letter/portfolio: Any projects you've worked on in the past few years in the AI/ML space Any relevant experience in the travel, aviation or airline space
