Senior Data Scientist
 Location: Remote
Do you enjoy exploring datasets? Are you passionate about helping people make sense of terabytes of data? If so, Hux is seeking creative minds and persistent problem solvers to build and support cutting-edge marketing data science solutions that help our clients deliver customer value at every touchpoint.
In today’s world, customers expect companies to know who they are and what they want. Customers want to have products, services or experiences that best suit their needs delivered to them seamlessly across physical and digital channels.
 Customers are human first: driven by dynamic wants, needs, and desires. The ability for brands to make personal, meaningful connections on a human level has never been greater and Hux by Deloitte Digital delivers on those experiences in a way that allows companies to own the customer journey end to end.
 Hux is the Human Experience Platform by Deloitte Digital. We help companies connect key data sources to understand what matters most to people; connect to advanced technologies like AI and machine learning to sense and respond to those needs at scale; and connect their systems to unlock insights, create collaboration and drive acquisition, engagement and loyalty. Most importantly, we empower companies to connect with customers in personal, meaningful ways that respect them as people, not just customers.
Hux by Deloitte Digital gives companies the ability to build and leverage the connections – between people, systems, data and technologies – so they can deliver personalized, contextual experiences to customers at scale.
Work you'll do
As a Senior Data Scientist, you will be tasked with solving data problems end to end. This means:
Having and growing an understanding of the multi-channel marketing optimization problem space
Performing exploratory data analysis to understand relationships, opportunities to influence outcomes and how to attribute cross channel outcomes
Being able to quickly iterate over common feature transformation and model types in order to find the best predictive models
Being able to interpret the models that are being generated
Developing proofs of concept to verify your ideas
Closing the loop to make sure that the proposed solution is performing as it should and is correctly understood by stakeholders
You’ll join a team of passionate, talented data scientists who collaborate to design, build and maintain cutting-edge models that arm our clients with the ability to spot customer value and act upon it. If you’re intellectually curious, hardworking and solution-oriented, you’ll fit right into our fast-paced, collaborative environment. In addition to working with our data science team, you’ll also work closely with our data engineering team to develop top-of-the-line data pipelines.
The team
Advertising, Marketing & Commerce
Our Advertising, Marketing & Commerce team focuses on delivering marketing and growth objectives aligned with our clients’ brand values for measurable business growth. We do this by creating content, communications, and experiences that engage and inspire their customers to act. We implement and operate the technology platforms that enable personalized content, commerce and marketing user-centric experiences. In doing so, we transform our clients marketing and engagement operations into modern, data-driven, creatively focused organizations. Our team brings deep experience in creative and digital marketing capabilities, many from our Digital Studios.
We serve our clients through the following types of work:
Cross-channel customer engagement strategy, design and development
(web, mobile, social, physical)
eCommerce strategy, implementation and operations
Marketing Content and digital asset management solutions
Marketing Technology and Advertising Technology solutions
Marketing analytics implementation and operations
Advertising campaign ideation, development and execution
Acquisition and engagement campaign ideation, development and execution
Agile based, design-thinking, user-centric, empirical projects that accelerate results
Qualifications
Required:
A Master’s or PhD in a quantitative field (engineering, mathematics, physics, machine learning, statistics or computer science) are the ideal candidates. Those with Masters’ should also have a quantitative Bachelor’s degree
At least 3+ years of industry experience outside of academia
Experience manipulating big data using opensource frameworks. This means being familiar with tools such as Spark and Kubeflow. In addition, because we handle very large volumes of data past work with cloud-based environment is required.
Be able to write high quality Python code. This means being familiar with unit testing, source control and code review
Excellent hands-on knowledge of modeling approaches such as Boosted Trees and Logistic regression.Preferred:
Good problem decomposition skills and autonomy when faced with solving data problems
Experience with large data sets generated in the Ad Tech or Marketing technology spaces
Demonstrated communication capabilities. We ask that you be able to explain your insights to people beyond the data science team. This means knowing how to best craft your message and selecting the right visualizations
Things that would help you stand out:
Experience with end-to-end Data Science solutions such as H2O Driverless or Data Robot.
A deep interest in Data Science and AI. A good measure of this would be competition participation (Kaggle or other) as well as participation in open source projects.
An appreciation of how, when and where data science methods are most likely to lead to valuable commercial outcomes for specific large enterprises
If you have code in the open domain (for example GitHub) or have written about AI/DS please share this with us
Experience with Deep Learning architectures and/or Reinforcement Learning
How you’ll grow
 At Deloitte Digital, our professional development plan focuses on helping people at every level of their career to identify and use their strengths to do their best work every day. From entry-level employees to senior leaders, we believe there’s always room to learn. We offer opportunities to help sharpen skills, work with industry-leading talent on a daily basis, in addition to hands-on experience in the global, fast-changing business world. From on-the-job learning experiences to formal development programs at Deloitte University, our professionals have a variety of opportunities to continue to grow throughout their career, while delivering products and services to Fortune 500 clients. Explore Deloitte University, The Leadership Center.
Benefits
At Deloitte, we know that great people make a great organization. We value our people and offer employees a broad range of benefits. Learn more about what working at Deloitte can mean for you.
Deloitte’s culture
Who says work can’t be fun? At Deloitte Digital, the worlds of business, creative, and technology intersect to transform the way we work, play, and communicate. We can’t quite put our finger on it, but that combo creates something kind of magical. In studios or on the road, we believe in our people, and we understand that quality of life directly impacts quality of work. We pride ourselves on our flexible work environment and distinctive culture. Learn more about life at Deloitte Digital.
Corporate citizenship
Deloitte is led by a purpose: to make an impact that matters. This purpose defines who we are and extends to relationships with our clients, our people and our communities. We believe that business has the power to inspire and transform. We focus on education, giving, skill-based volunteerism, and leadership to help drive positive social impact in our communities. Learn more about Deloitte’s impact on the world.
Recruiter tips
We want job seekers exploring opportunities at Deloitte to feel prepared and confident. To help you with your interview, we suggest that you do your research: know some background about the organization and the business area you’re applying to. Check out recruiting tips from Deloitte professionals.
AMC2021
