Job detailsJob TypeFull-timeFull Job DescriptionAt LeasePlan, we are always asking What's next in mobility.
Join our team and be part of a dynamic, exciting and engaging business, so we can discover What’s next together!
OBJECTIVE
The Senior Data Analyst position will be responsible for leading strategic projects and other data quality remediation planning, act as an advisor to our business in matters of data, reporting and business intelligence. This position will advise on technology industry standards, tools, and practices as well as design and implement best practices for the data analysis, quality and accuracy. The successful candidate will closely partner with business, operation teams and clients. This individual will need to be detailed focus with the ability to detect patterns from very large volumes of data with a focus on enterprise solutions.
ESSENTIAL FUNCTIONS
Lead strategic and enterprise level data driven projects. Create enterprise level end-to-end data flow diagrams, data lineage maps and logical data models. Develop automated quality control procedures to assess quality of data and provides reports to data owners. Use advanced analytical skills to monitor trends, diagnose problems and surface opportunities. Help to further develop the company’s data literacy Collaborate with data engineering to build robust data pipelines and models Ability to collect, interpret, and synthesize inputs from various parts of the business into technical requirements Comfortable acting as an individual contributor (ie. no people management responsibilities) Present and communicate in a professional and effective manner. Exceptional analytical and conceptual thinking skills.
TECHNICAL SKILLS
SQL skills with demonstrated ability to write efficient, complex queries Advanced knowledge of Microsoft Excel BI Tool experience (ie – Power BI, Tableau, etc.).
CORE COMPETENCIES
Strong organizational skills Team player – desire to contribute to various projects with ability to develop detailed project plans Ability to assess business impact of issues, prioritize them and act to rectify Ability to quickly assimilate new technologies and information
LEADERSHIP RESPONSIBILITY
 “This position has no leadership responsibilities.”
WORK ENVIRONMENT
Ability to work from home
POSITION TYPE/STANDARD SCHEDULE
Full time positions
TRAVEL
Occasional travel may be required
MINIMUM REQUIRED EDUCATION & EXPERIENCE
Bachelor Degree in Business, Data Analytics, Engineering, Computer Science or similar degree
Please note this job description is not designed to cover or contain a comprehensive listing of activities, duties or responsibilities that are required of the employee for this job. Duties, responsibilities and activities may change at any time with or without notice.
Careers at LeasePlan
LeasePlan operates across more than 30 countries. With over 55 years’ experience, LeasePlan’s mission is to provide What’s next in mobility via an ’any car, anytime, anywhere’ service.
We also believe ‘you cannot grow a business; you can only grow people who can grow the business.’ LeasePlan is proud of its culture of service and care towards customers and each other, which has endured for over 55 years. By applying to work with LeasePlan, you are joining a team where you yourself will get to play a part in building the future of our business.
