POSITION PURPOSE
The Associate Data Scientist is responsible for supporting data science initiatives that drive business profitability, increased efficiencies, and improved customer experience. This role works closely with Data Scientists and/or Sr. Data Scientists in their team to develop solutions by applying advanced analytics methods and algorithms for identifying trends and providing business solutions. Based on the specific data science team, this role may need to develop skills in one or more data science specializations, such as optimization, computer vision, recommendation, search, or NLP. As an Associate Data Scientist, you will develop skills that effectively leverage data science methodologies to creatively solve business problems and provide strategic insights. This requires effective communication skills as well as continuous learning and development at both the technical and business level.

MAJOR TASKS, RESPONSIBILITIES, AND KEY ACCOUNTABILITIES
50% - Model Preparation: Establish scalable, efficient processes for large scale data analyses, model development, and model implementation
30% - Model Development and Deployment: Design and develop algorithms and models to use against large datasets to create business insights
20% - Communication and Visualization: Present analysis and resulting recommendations to senior management; Leverage data to present a compelling business case to optimize investments and operations
NATURE AND SCOPE
This position reports to the Senior Manager Data Science. This position has 0 direct reports.
ENVIRONMENTAL JOB REQUIREMENTS
Environment:
Located in a comfortable indoor area. Any unpleasant conditions would be infrequent and not objectionable.
Travel:

Typically requires overnight travel less than 10% of the time.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS
Must be eighteen years of age or older.
Must be legally permitted to work in the United States.
Additional Minimum Qualifications:
Education Required:
The knowledge, skills and abilities typically acquired through the completion of a bachelor's degree program or equivalent degree in a field of study related to the job
Years of Relevant Work Experience: 3 years
Physical Requirements:
Most of the time is spent sitting in a comfortable position and there is frequent opportunity to move about. On rare occasions, there may be a need to move or lift light articles
Preferred Qualifications:
Master's degree in a quantitative field (Computer Science, Math, Statistics, etc.) or equivalent work experience
3+ years of experience in business intelligence and analytics Working knowledge of Microsoft Excel and PowerPoint Experience in a modern scripting language (preferably Python)
Experience running queries against data (preferably with Google BigQuery or SQL)
Experience in predictive modeling, data mining, and data analysis Experience with data visualization software (preferably Tableau)
Experience utilizing statistical techniques to identify key insights that help solve business problems
Basic knowledge or exposure to Prescriptive Modeling like optimization, computer vision, recommendation, search, or NLP
Knowledge, Skills, Abilities, and Competencies:
Action-Oriented - Taking on new opportunities and tough challenges with a sense of urgency, high energy, and enthusiasm
Collaborates - Building partnerships and working collaboratively with others to meet shared objectives
Communicates Effectively - Developing and delivering multi-mode communications that convey a clear understanding of the unique needs of different audiences
Customer Focus - Building strong customer relationships and delivering customer-centric solutions
Drives Results - Consistently achieving results, even under tough circumstances
Manages Conflict - Handling conflict situations effectively with minimal noise
Nimble Learning - Actively learning through experimentation when tackling new problems, using both successes and failures as learning fodder
