Job detailsJob TypeFull-timeInternshipFull Job DescriptionPrimary Location: 3003 Summit Blvd, Atlanta, GA, USA
Division: Cox Automotive
Job Level: Intern/Co-op
Travel: No
Schedule: Full-time
Shift: Day Job
Requisition Number: 211631
Our data scientists are responsible for leading the development of advanced analytics models to solve our customers’ problems through innovative products and services; and inform internal business operations and strategy. They will work closely with product, engineering, and our business stakeholders as the subject matter expert on the application mathematical modeling across our family of leading automotive brands. The Data Scientist works under the direction of senior data science staff. The scope of work includes the preparation and analysis and data and basic modeling.
The Data Scientist Intern works under the direction of senior data science staff. The scope of work includes the preparation and analysis and data and basic modeling.
Primary Duties & Key Responsibilities:
Under the direction of senior team members, execute well-defined analytics tasks, e.g., data preparation, data analysis, descriptive statistics.
Assist in building Vehicle Market Analytics applications.
Present findings to peers and data science leadership.
Qualifications:Strong problem-solving skills.
A drive to learn and master new technologies and techniques.
Understanding in applying descriptive, predictive, and prescriptive statistics to real-world problems.
The ability to present findings clearly and concisely to team members and data science leadership.
Requires physical ability and mental acuity to execute the duties of the position successfully within required timeframes in order to meet business requirements.
Knowledge/work experience with SAS, Python, R, Tableau
Majoring in Statistics, Operations Research, Industrial Engineering, Applied Mathematics, Computer Science, Economics, or related quantitative field.
Rising Senior or Graduate Student.
Who We Are
About Cox Automotive
There’s nothing ordinary about Cox Automotive. We are people of every background driven by our passion for mobility, innovation, client success and community outreach. We make buying, selling and owning (or simply using) cars easier for everyone. Touching more than 40,000 clients across five continents, we bring together the best brands and the best teams to propel the automotive industry forward. Some of those team members work for our iconic consumer brands like Autotrader and Kelley Blue Book, while others are creating the future of automotive at industry-facing brands like Dealer.com, Manheim and vAuto.
About Cox
We are the Cox family of businesses. We’ve been making our mark since 1898 by building and evolving world-class businesses, staying true to our values, and encouraging top talent to always look for growth and impact while building a career with us. Our primary divisions – Cox Communications and Cox Automotive – are driving a new wave of innovation, powering smart cities with powerhouse broadband communications and pioneering greener, more progressive transportation alternatives for individuals and fleet operators. We’re also expanding into new spaces like cleantech and healthcare to rev up our momentum toward building a better future for the next generation. We’re looking for the talent today who will be our leaders tomorrow. Sound intriguing? Learn more about where we are today, where we hope you’ll be going with us, and the common purpose that unites us at coxenterprises.com.
Cox is an Equal Employment Opportunity employer - All qualified applicants/employees will receive consideration for employment without regard to that individual’s age, race, color, religion or creed, national origin or ancestry, sex (including pregnancy), sexual orientation, gender, gender identity, physical or mental disability, veteran status, genetic information, ethnicity, citizenship, or any other characteristic protected by law.
Statement to ALL Third-Party Agencies and Similar Organizations: Cox accepts resumes only from agencies with which we formally engage their services. Please do not forward resumes to our applicant tracking system, Cox employees, Cox hiring manager, or send to any Cox facility. Cox is not responsible for any fees or charges associated with unsolicited resumes.
