Historically, the travel requirement for this position has ranged from 80-100%. The safety and well-being of our people continues to be the top priority, and our decisions around travel are informed by government COVID-19 response directives, recommendations from leading health authorities, and guidance from a number of infectious disease experts. For now, all KPMG business travel, international and domestic, is currently restricted to client-essential sales/delivery activity only. At some point in the future and with the safety of people as the critical factor, the travel requirement will likely increase, possibly to previous levels, but KPMG is committed to balancing client requirements with new delivery capabilities.
Innovate. Collaborate. Build. Create. Solve. The KPMG Digital Lighthouse is KPMG's award-winning Analytics & AI Center of Excellence recognized by clients and leading analyst firms in the US and globally. The KPMG Lighthouse is a curation of specialized technical capabilities and domain experts working across the digital landscape: applied data science, AI, data engineering and insights, software engineering, automation, and big data. Here, you'll work with a diverse team of professionals to explore and build solutions for clients in a multiplatform environment.
You'll be an important part of our high-energy, unique, fast-paced, and innovative culture that delivers with the agility of a tech startup and the backing of a leading global consulting firm. In this particular role, you'll work specifically in the AI Analytics & Engineering Community within the Digital Lighthouse, on a wide range of projects. From applied AI to optimization to big data platform engineering, your analytical and technical skills will drive real impact in the business world. At KPMG, our commitment to your career development helps to set us apart as an employer. We want to enhance your potential, both for yourself and as a contributor to our firm. That's why we provide every opportunity to expand your skills, knowledge and experiences through formal education and training programs, leadership development opportunities, and, as well as informal one-on-one coaching and mentoring from your KPMG colleagues.
KPMG is currently seeking a Sr. Associate NLP/AI Modeler to join our KPMG Lighthouse - Center of Excellence for Advanced Analytics.
Responsibilities:
Work in multi-disciplinary and cross-functional teams to translate business objectives into artificial intelligence approaches and objectives; capture business domains into knowledge bases, taxonomies, and ontologies across different areas (risk management, financial services, mergers and acquisitions, and public policy)
Work in a fast-paced and dynamic environment with both virtual and face-to-face interactions; utilize structured approaches to solving problems, managing risks, and documenting assumption while communicating results and educating others through insightful visualizations, reports, and presentations
Build ingestion processes to prepare, extract, and annotate a rich data variety of unstructured data sources (social media, news, internal/external documents, images, video, voice, emails, financial data, and operational data)
Leverage a variety of tools and approaches to solve complex business objectives (Statistical Natural Language Processing, Information Retrieval/Extraction, Machine Learning/ Deep Learning, Image Processing, Rules Engines, Knowledge Graphs, and Semantic Search)
Deliver on engagement milestones by following analytics processes to manage and mitigate risks in data, modeling, validation, and delivery; Work with others to clear issues
Refactor deploy and validate models; work with clients iteratively to validate performance metrics, and sample output to drive towards a business-first solution; utilize APIs, platforms, containers, multi-threading, distributed processing to achieve throughput goals
Qualifications:
Minimum of three years of experience leading work streams with two plus data scientists, engineers, and other data & analytics professionals, including innovation, quality management, utilizing analytics, software development processes, and modeling processes (data discovery, cleaning, model selection, validation, and deployment); Multidisciplinary backgrounds is preferred
Bachelor's, Master's, or PhD degree from an accredited college/university in a quantitative discipline, such as Computer Science, Engineering, or Mathematics, including one plus year of training specific to artificial intelligence
Ability to apply artificial intelligence techniques to achieve concrete business goals; ability to work with the business to understand available resources and constraints around data (sources, integrity, and definitions), processing platforms, and security; provide assistance, and resolve problems, using solid problem-solving skills, verbal/written communication
Understanding of data preparation, machine learning, deep learning, natural language processing; ability to discuss pros and cons of modeling approaches; Understanding of development practices such as testing, code design, complexity, and code optimization
Fluency in Python; proficiency in AI related frameworks (NLTK, Spacy, Scikit-Learn, Tensorflow); and experience with platforms (Google Cloud, Azure, and AWS); Ability to work with a variety of databases (SQL, ElasticSearch, Solr, Neo4j)
Ability to travel up to eighty percent of the time; Applicants must be currently authorized to work in the United States without the need for visa sponsorship now or in the future
KPMG LLP (the U.S. member firm of KPMG International) offers a comprehensive compensation and benefits package. KPMG is an affirmative action-equal opportunity employer. KPMG complies with all applicable federal, state and local laws regarding recruitment and hiring. All qualified applicants are considered for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, disability, protected veteran status, or any other category protected by applicable federal, state or local laws. The attached link contains further information regarding the firm's compliance with federal, state and local recruitment and hiring laws. No phone calls or agencies please.
