Conversational AI and VUI Designer, Consultant - Applied Artificial Intelligence
Limited immigration sponsorship may be available.
Work you’ll do
At Deloitte, you’ll gather requirements and design for a variety of conversational interfaces and creative business technology solutions for enterprise clients. As a rigorous language-first UX designer with a creative flair for content and expertise in conversational AI technologies, you’ll:
Gather requirements, design flows, and write content for IVR, VUI/voice user interfaces, Virtual Assistants, Chatbots, and omnichannel conversational interfaces
Drive and own persona definition, functional design, process design (including scenario design, flow mapping), prototyping, testing, model/intent training, and definition of support procedures
Work with engagement leadership, project managers, conversational AI architects, developers, UX designers, product managers, and fellow consultants to strategize, design, and deliver enterprise conversational AI solutions
Collaborate with clients, partner professional services teams, and project leadership to identify business requirements and design voice and digital self-service solutions for diverse use cases across industries and modalities
Contribute to enterprise content strategy guides and design omnichannel and cross-channel solutions aligned with client organizational principles (brand voice and tone, legal, compliance, etc.)
Contribute to Deloitte’s vibrant design culture through design sprints, workshops, reviews, and related activities with business, technical, and creative leadership (client and internal)
Design and deliver POCs, demos, prototypes, and sales collateral in alignment with engagement and practice leadership and sales executives across the firm
The team
Analytics & Cognitive
In this age of disruption, organizations need to navigate the future with confidence, embracing decision making with clear, data-driven choices that deliver enterprise value in a dynamic business environment.
The Analytics & Cognitive team leverages the power of data, analytics, robotics, science and cognitive technologies to uncover hidden relationships from vast troves of data, generate insights, and inform decision-making. Together with the Strategy practice, our Strategy & Analytics portfolio helps clients transform their business by architecting organizational intelligence programs and differentiated strategies to win in their chosen markets.
Analytics & Cognitive will work with our clients to:
Implement large-scale data ecosystems including data management, governance and the integration of structured and unstructured data to generate insights leveraging cloud-based platformsLeverage automation, cognitive and science-based techniques to manage data, predict scenarios and prescribe actionsDrive operational efficiency by maintaining their data ecosystems, sourcing analytics expertise and providing As-a-Service offerings for continuous insights and improvements
Qualifications
Required:2+ years of relevant work experience in VUI or conversational design in or around contact centers and/or enterprise virtual assistants
Experience collaborating with conversational AI and contact center developers, architects, and other relevant team members
Group facilitation skills
Fluent in design thinking and conversation design methodology
Experience with requirements gathering, documentation, and tracking
Experience designing and delivering conversational AI MVPs, pilots, and POCs
Demonstrable experience designing and/or deploying:
VUI / IVR flows for enterprise contact centers
Voice and/or text-based conversational flows for virtual agents or virtual assistants
Experience with flow design and prototyping tools (Figma, Sketch, Visio, Axure, InVision, etc)
Deep understanding of software development lifecycle and agile delivery methodologies
Understanding of natural language technology, the tech stack behind modern conversational experiences, and how to design for current abilities and limitations
Experience scripting video and creative materials for POCs, marketing demos, and interactive sales collateral
Bachelor's Degree in linguistics, English/creative writing/literatures, human-computer interaction, interaction design, or a related content or design field
Ability to travel up to 50% (While 50% of travel is a requirement of the role, due to COVID-19, non-essential travel has been suspended until further notice.)
Preferred:
1+ years of consulting experience on Contact Center, VUI/IVR, and/or conversational AI projects
Expertise in 1+ domains preferred (e.g., Customer & Marketing, Finance, M&A, Operations, Pricing, Risk, Supply Chain, Workforce, etc.)
Certification or expertise in at least one of the following platforms:
Amazon Lex / Alexa; GCP Dialogflow ES, CX or CCAI; IBM Watson, IPSoft Amelia, Kore.ai, Nuance Nina, Salesforce Einstein
Amazon Connect, Genesys, Twilio, NICE inContact, Five9, 8x8, Avaya
Enterprise UX writing, content design, or content strategy experience
Demonstrable experience in Healthcare, Technology, Media, Telecommunications, Consumer (especially transportation) and/or Financial Services & Insurance
Ability to work independently and manage small engagements or parts of large engagements
Strong oral and written communication skills; presentation skills (MS Office, PowerPoint, Visio, etc.)
Strong problem solving and troubleshooting skills with mature judgement
Advanced degree in creative writing, linguistics, or a relevant content-, writing-or design-focused disciplineHow you’ll grow
At Deloitte, our professional development plan focuses on helping people at every level of their career to identify and use their strengths to do their best work every day. From entry-level employees to senior leaders, we believe there’s always room to learn. We offer opportunities to help sharpen skills in addition to hands-on experience in the global, fast-changing business world. From on-the-job learning experiences to formal development programs at Deloitte University, our professionals have a variety of opportunities to continue to grow throughout their career. Explore Deloitte University, The Leadership Center.
Benefits
At Deloitte, we know that great people make a great organization. We value our people and offer employees a broad range of benefits. Learn more about what working at Deloitte can mean for you.Deloitte’s culture
Our positive and supportive culture encourages our people to do their best work every day. We celebrate individuals by recognizing their uniqueness and offering them the flexibility to make daily choices that can help them to be healthy, centered, confident, and aware. We offer well-being programs and are continuously looking for new ways to maintain a culture where our people excel and lead healthy, happy lives. Learn more about Life at Deloitte.
Corporate citizenship
Deloitte is led by a purpose: to make an impact that matters. This purpose defines who we are and extends to relationships with our clients, our people and our communities. We believe that business has the power to inspire and transform. We focus on education, giving, skill-based volunteerism, and leadership to help drive positive social impact in our communities. Learn more about Deloitte’s impact on the world.
Recruiter tips
We want job seekers exploring opportunities at Deloitte to feel prepared and confident. To help you with your interview, we suggest that you do your research: know some background about the organization and the business area you’re applying to. Check out recruiting tips from Deloitte professionals.
anccon
