Want to create customer value with digital and turn your ideas into human impact? So do we.

There’s one in every group—the person who dreams big and has the motivation to bring their ideas to life, even as others might roll their eyes and prefer to play it safe. Are you that person? One who isn’t afraid to break the mold and who gets inspired by the power of digital to transform organizations and ways of working? Because we are building teams of people like that to help our clients unlock the power they need now and own what’s next.

We are breaking apart the traditional process of setting strategies and goals first, then finding technologies to achieve them. In the digital age, there’s no time for that linear process. We partner with clients to accelerate value from digital innovation by being bold, imaginative - and fast. We think big and deliver personally. We relentlessly challenge, inspire, and support our client partners and each other.

Want the agility and energy of a start-up, backed by the resources of Accenture, Microsoft and the Center for Information Systems Research at MIT Sloan School of Management? Here you will find a team of people who thrive on turning ideas and innovations into breakthrough results for leading organizations around the globe. Ultimately, we’re not just making business better. We’re making life better for our clients and their customers.

If that sounds like you, you sound good to us. Find your next opportunity at Avanade Advisory.
Overview:
Avanade is seeking a Group Manager/Manager to expand its Data & Analytics Advisory capabilities. You will support engagements advising clients at the highest strategic level with big-picture and tactical guidance on how technology enables a wide range of business outcomes. You must possess exception analytical, interpersonal and creative thinking capabilities. You will need to be entrepreneurial, enterprising and personable, possessing exceptional leadership qualities, that allows you to assume a critical role in the Advisory Practice with an ability to scale over time. The work you're doing in this role will be of a Strategic nature rather than a software or technology architecture deliverable.
Key Role Responsibilities:
Operating with senior client executives (C-levels, VPs, Directors), you will assist our clients in successfully defining their Data and Analytics/ Artificial Intelligence Strategy, Transformation Initiatives, Investments and Operating Models to support their business priorities.

You will target initiatives to specific industries domains and at driving business value now and solving our client’s challenges by sophisticated analytics techniques to realize the promise of building an intelligent business eco-system.
As a successful Manager or Group Manager, you will:Lead the delivery of a broad range of Data, Analytics, Advanced Analytics, Visualization, Data Science, RPA and AI related Strategy / Advisory engagements
Possess deep understanding of trends and strategies for identifying and leveraging appropriate approaches and solutions to meet client business, financial and technical objectives
Conduct detailed analyses to understand and explain client problems and utilize standard consulting management skills such as facilitation, interviewing, gap analysis, etc.
Lead the design and delivery of Data/Analytics Strategy, advisory engagements involving strategy, roadmap and longer-term COE models (Operating models)
Lead the scoping, definition and delivery of Data Governance assessments, workshops and client engagements
Conduct quick value discovery engagements in Data & AI to identify applicable industry use-cases, help clients understand the effort, potential benefits, and develop an opportunity prioritization matrix
Lead strategy engagements with clients to create clear and actionable strategic roadmaps and supporting business cases that both delineate a broader end-game, while also prioritizing quick wins with near-term measurable impact
Demonstrate thought leadership to advise clients on Data/Analytics, AI and automation strategy and detailed use cases development by industry
Actively contribute to the creation of client proposals for consulting and/or transformation engagements focused on Data/Analytics/ AI and automation
Monitor technology trends and raise awareness of capabilities and innovations in selected domains of expertise and contribute towards industry specific offerings
Required Skills & Experience:6+ years of Management Consulting experience from a top management or professional services firm
Defining AI and IoT Strategy, Operating Models and advisory experience
Understanding of user experience
Willingness to travel 80% domestically
Previous experience working on multiple Advisory / Strategy engagements in a highly matrixed external client facing environment, with Talent & Project & Budget Management responsibilities
Superb communication, presentation and facilitation skills
Aptitude for critical and analytical thinking as well as the capacity to accept out-of-the box solutions
Autonomous, positive problem solver, and aptitude to work independently or part of a multi-disciplinary team
Practical Business Architecture experience (business / operation models, personas, process modelling)
Knowledge of the Data/ Analytics strategy and COE definition
Bachelor’s degree in related field, MBA preferred
Preferred Experience and Skills:
The following skills and capabilities are central to the role, depending on Service Area expertise:
Cross-sector and functional experience highly desirable (Financial Services/ Healthcare/ Life Sciences/ Manufacturing/ Supply Chain)
Data, Analytics Strategy, Maturity assessment & Roadmap (using Microsoft technologies)
COE Setup and Operationalization Plan (Analytics related)
Data Governance and Management
Process Re-Engineering, Transformation and Adoption
Sound knowledge in Strategy development involving areas such as Data Architecture, Data Hubbing / Integration, Data Modeling, Data Governance & Management, Data Quality, Data Security, Reporting & Analytics, BI Governance, BI Self-Service
