Job detailsJob TypeFull-timeFull Job DescriptionLAUNCH DATA SPECIALIST
LOCATION: UNITED STATES, REMOTE
Description:
Reporting to the Launch Manager, the Launch Data Specialist will support the translation of client data for internal reports and data formatting. This role will play an integral part in building Rubicon’s competitive advantage through gathering and translating data for the Launch process. Data integrity and reporting are an essential function to success.
Key Responsibilities:
Extract information from customer raw data to create usable data sheets for the launch process
Support efforts to ensure data integrity across all platforms and departments
Proactively work with both internal and external end users to resolve data gaps or discrepancies
Contribute to idea generation for additional process improvements and automation
Work closely with the rest of the Rubicon team to create ad-hoc reports
 Preferred Experience/Qualifications
Bachelor’s degree
Proficient in Excel, working with large data sets
Ability to standardize data sets, and use conditional formatting, formulas, v-lookups, and pivot tables
PowerBI experience preferred, but not required
Previous experience in the waste industry or understanding of the industry preferred, but not required
A clear passion for learning new business analysis techniques independently and continuously
Ability to work directly with end users to ensure results meet their needs
Strong interpersonal skills, capable of writing recommendations and interacting with company personnel on complex topics
Ability to present clear, concise reporting on concurrent projects and issues
Effective verbal and written communication skills
About Rubicon Global
Rubicon Global is a technology company that powers a digital marketplace, provides a suite of SaaS products for waste, recycling, and smart city solutions, and collects and analyzes data for businesses and governments worldwide.
Rubicon is using technology for social good, to help turn neighborhoods into greener and smarter cities. The company is a Certified B Corporation, which means we align our business with purpose.
Rubicon’s mission is to end waste in all of its forms. This starts with the physical waste that businesses, governments and organizations produce in their daily operations. But it goes a step further to include wasted time, wasted money, and wasted energy. It starts with keeping materials out of landfills and creating a more circular economy through recycling and reuse, and expands to include creating a more efficient and effective society.
Through technology, Rubicon is transforming the entire category of the waste and recycling industry. With the advent of artificial intelligence, big data, and machine learning, the world of both residential and commercial waste and recycling is going to be entirely different 50 years from now, and Rubicon is the catalyst that is driving that change.
Rubicon Global is a Certified B Corp and an Equal Employment Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer. We also maintain a Drug-Free Workplace.
