Every day, hundreds of millions of people use Microsoft services such as Microsoft365, Azure, Xbox, Outlook.com… While they may not know it, all those user accounts are protected from cybercriminals by Microsoft’s Identity security team.
The Microsoft Identity security team is on a mission to protect our users from account compromise and fraud. Our data science team is at the core of this mission, creating and improving the machine learning based detections that are used to find and block the malicious actors from harming our systems and customers.
We are looking for a talented data scientist who is passionate about big data, machine learning and cybersecurity. Your job will entail diving through mountains of data and extracting insights to help us understand the ever-changing environment of identity compromise and abuse. Take a blank canvas made of terabytes of information and create smart algorithms that can detect and stop the bad actors while maximizing the good users’ productivity and usability.
Do you love big data and the challenges it entails? Do you like the idea of applying your technical skills to protect millions of Microsoft customers from malicious actors? Do you want be part of team of smart, talented and mission driven people? Then this job is for you!
ResponsibilitiesCreate and maintain machine learning based detections to prevent account compromise and abuse of Microsoft Identity services.Analyze new data sources and research new patterns and techniques that can be used in an automated detection.Set up and track metrics to assess the quality of our detections, so we can improve and adapt in real time.Leverage data gathered by the different teams and services to build new detection algorithms.Help the team achieve its mission by participating in incident resolution and investigations on identity security attacks.
Qualifications
Required:A strong background in statistics and machine learning.Academic or professional experience solving problems through modeling, measurement, and data analysis.Proficient in data analytics languages (SQL, R or Python) and some programming experience (C#, C++, Java..)Experience with reporting and data visualization.Strong communication skills with other data scientists and with partners from other domains.2+ years of relevant engineering experience
Preferred:MS/PhD in computer science, machine learning, statistics, or quantitative domain.Previous experience in any of the following: identity systems, security, threat intelligence, fraud, or abuse.
#IdentityJobs #MicrosoftATL #IdentityATL
Ability to meet Microsoft, customer and/or government security screening requirements are required for this role. These requirements include, but are not limited to the following specialized security screenings:
Microsoft Cloud Background Check: This position will be required to pass the Microsoft Cloud Background Check upon hire/transfer and every two years thereafter.
Microsoft is an equal opportunity employer. All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to age, ancestry, color, family or medical care leave, gender identity or expression, genetic information, marital status, medical condition, national origin, physical or mental disability, political affiliation, protected veteran status, race, religion, sex (including pregnancy), sexual orientation, or any other characteristic protected by applicable laws, regulations and ordinances. We also consider qualified applicants regardless of criminal histories, consistent with legal requirements. If you need assistance and/or a reasonable accommodation due to a disability during the application or the recruiting process, please send a request via the Accommodation request form.
Benefits/perks listed below may vary depending on the nature of your employment with Microsoft and the country where you work.
