Job detailsJob TypeFull-timeFull Job DescriptionDescription
SHIFT: Day Job
SCHEDULE: Full-time
Your Talent. Our Vision. At Anthem, Inc., it’s a powerful combination, and the foundation upon which we’re creating greater access to care for our members, greater value for our customers, and greater health for our communities. Join us and together we will drive the future of health care.
This is an exceptional opportunity to do innovative work that means more to you and those we serve at one of America's leading health benefits companies and a Fortune Top 50 Company.
Principal Data Scientist
Principal Data Scientist will lead the development and implementation of machine learning algorithms and techniques to solve business problems and optimize member experiences. Serve as the `methodology-expert¿ on the team and provide guidelines to team for applying appropriate algorithms or solutions to tackle different problems. Coach junior team members on various data science techniques. Keep abreast of the latest enhancements and innovations within the areas of data science and big data processing.
Primary duties may include are but not limited to:
Champion the design & execution of machine learning projects to address specific business problems determined by consultation with business partners.
Provide guidance to the team on working with data-sets of varying degrees of size and complexity including both structured and unstructured data.
Piping and processing massive data-streams in distributed computing environments such as Hadoop to facilitate analysis.
Implements batch and real-time model scoring to drive actions.
Develops proprietary machine learning algorithms to build customized solutions that go beyond standard industry tools and lead to innovative solutions.
Develop sophisticated visualization of analysis output for business users.
Publish results and address constraints/limitations with business partners.
Provides high-level controllership/evaluation of all output produced to ensure established targets are met. Determines the continuous improvement opportunities of current predictive modeling algorithms.
Proactively collaborates with business partners to determine identified population segments and develop actionable plans to enable the identification of patterns related to quality, use, cost and other variables.
We offer a range of market-competitive total rewards that include merit increases, paid holidays, Paid Time Off, and incentive bonus programs (unless covered by a collective bargaining agreement), medical, dental, vision, short and long term disability benefits, 401(k) +match, stock purchase plan, life insurance, wellness programs and financial education resources, to name a few.
Anthem, Inc. is ranked as one of America’s Most Admired Companies among health insurers by Fortune magazine and has been named a 2019 Best Employers for Diversity by Forbes. To learn more about our company and apply, please visit us at careers.antheminc.com. An Equal Opportunity Employer/Disability/Veteran. Anthem promotes the delivery of services in a culturally competent manner and considers cultural competency when evaluating applicants for all Anthem positions.

Qualifications
Requires MA/MS in Statistics Computer Science Mathematics Machine Learning Econometrics Physics Biostatistics or related Quantitative disciplines. 7 years experience in predictive analytics and advanced expertise with software such as Python R SAS SAS Enterprise Miner or equivalent or any combination of education and experience which would provide an equivalent background. Experience leading end-to-end data science project implementation. Experience managing a small team either through formal or informal reporting relationship is preferred. Experience working with cross-functional project teams and managing communications including in-person or virtual meetings is preferred. Experience with presenting project output to a wide range of audience is preferred. Prefer candidates with the ability to influence audience through effective communication skills. PhD and experience in the healthcare sector preferred.
We offer a range of market-competitive total rewards that include merit increases, paid holidays, Paid Time Off, and incentive bonus programs (unless covered by a collective bargaining agreement), medical, dental, vision, short and long term disability benefits, 401(k) +match, stock purchase plan, life insurance, wellness programs and financial education resources, to name a few.
Anthem, Inc. is ranked as one of America’s Most Admired Companies among health insurers by Fortune magazine and has been named a 2019 Best Employers for Diversity by Forbes. To learn more about our company and apply, please visit us at careers.antheminc.com. An Equal Opportunity Employer/Disability/Veteran. Anthem promotes the delivery of services in a culturally competent manner and considers cultural competency when evaluating applicants for all Anthem positions.
