Job detailsJob TypeFull-timeFull Job DescriptionPosition Type :
Full time
Type Of Hire :
Associate Development Program (Full Time Hire)
Education Desired :
Bachelor's Degree
Travel Percentage :
0%
Job Description
Are you curious, motivated, and forward-thinking? At FIS you’ll have the opportunity to work on some of the most challenging and relevant issues in financial services and technology. Our talented people empower us, and we believe in being part of a team that is open, collaborative, entrepreneurial, passionate and above all fun.
Join the 2021 FIS University Program!
As a 2021 FIS University Program full-time employee, you will have the opportunity to participate in team projects, community service activities, professional development seminars and work with a team that is invested in your growth, development, and success; including quarterly performance connects with your manager and bi-annual merit reviews.
This two-year full-time program has start dates in January and June with a dedicated “Learning Week” where you will;
Learn how to work within a corporate environment
Learn the structure of FIS and options for growth within the organization
Hear from FIS leadership about their journey and participate in senior leader networking opportunities
Build a network of your peers from across the organizationThis position starts June 28th, 2021.
About The Team
The Sales Operations team enables the end-to-end sales experience for all merchants in our high-growth payments business. We build and manage the tools and sales processes used by the largest sales force in the industry to facilitate ~20%+ y-o-y growth across our $4 bn revenue business. We sit at the center of our commercial and functional teams to build the deal approval process in the complex and heavily regulated payments space and reduce the time to revenue for our payments products and services. The team operates on an agile methodology to optimize the sales process, rapidly enable process enhancements through our own team of CRM developers, and then report out on sales performance for both executives and sales leaders. This year, our team is responsible for delivering on a large-scale Sales Operations transformation meant to bring our commercial teams together onto a single unified set of processes and tools, bringing the best from past acquisitions to set the strategy for future sales motions.
What You Will Be Doing
Track sales performance against forecast and investigate any variances
Extract data from a number of systems and platforms to build scalable, automated dashboards using tools like Tableau, Salesforce, and more
Analyze data and draw insights to create sales reports for the Executive team, Board, and Sales leaders
Manage large live datasets to perform data reconciliation, verification, and de-duplication to make the information accurate and usable for Executives and Sales Leaders
Work with Sales Leaders to understand what information they need to see to help them make decisions about the day-to-day management of their teams
What You Bring
Bachelor’s degree from job discipline
Proficiency in Microsoft Office Suite
Self-motivated and willingness to learn
Excellent communication and interpersonal skills
Added Bonus If You Have
Familiarity with Tableau, SQL, and/or WebFocus
Comfort building code to automate or manipulate large datasets
Degree in a quantitative field such as mathematics, data science, or economics
What We Offer You
Competitive salary and excellent benefits
The chance to work on some of the most challenging, relevant issues in financial services & technology
A broad range of professional education and personal development possibilities – FIS is your final career step!
Time to support charities and give back in your community
A work environment built on collaboration, flexibility and respect
**Current and future sponsorship are not available for this position**
Privacy Statement
FIS is committed to protecting the privacy and security of all personal information that we process in order to provide services to our clients. For specific information on how FIS protects personal information online, please see the Online Privacy Notice.
EEOC Statement
FIS is an equal opportunity employer. We evaluate qualified applicants without regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, marital status, genetic information, national origin, disability, veteran status, and other protected characteristics. The EEO is the Law poster is available here supplement document available here
For positions located in the US, the following conditions apply. If you are made a conditional offer of employment, you will be required to undergo a drug test. ADA Disclaimer: In developing this job description care was taken to include all competencies needed to successfully perform in this position. However, for Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) purposes, the essential functions of the job may or may not have been described for purposes of ADA reasonable accommodation. All reasonable accommodation requests will be reviewed and evaluated on a case-by-case basis.
Sourcing Model
Recruitment at FIS works primarily on a direct sourcing model; a relatively small portion of our hiring is through recruitment agencies. FIS does not accept resumes from recruitment agencies which are not on the preferred supplier list and is not responsible for any related fees for resumes submitted to job postings, our employees, or any other part of our company.
#pridepass
