Job detailsJob TypeFull-timeFull Job DescriptionPosition Mission:
The U.S. Automotive Parts Group of Genuine Parts Company is seeking a Senior Pricing Analyst, Pricing Science and Technology to provide meaningful, actionable pricing analysis that helps the company set competitive and profitable pricing for the marketplace.
Responsibilities:
Pursue analysis and mining of data to understand, evaluate, improve, and project business results
Run analytical experiments in a methodical manner, and regularly evaluate alternate models and theoretical approaches
Lead analytic project development, prioritize activities and drive initiatives to completion
Partner with 3rd party pricing optimization software firms to implement new solutions, including design, implementation, and change management
Provide leadership to provide analytical insights into the business by taking advantage of statistics and the latest technologies
Work with IT teams, management and/or data scientists to determine organizational goals
Mine data from primary and secondary sources
Clean and prune data to discard irrelevant information
Analyze and interpret results using standard statistical tools and techniques
Pinpoint trends, correlations and patterns in complicated data sets
Provide concise data reports and clear data visualizations for management
Present results of data analysis
Learn and train others on statistical and machine learning techniques
Other duties assigned
Experience, Education, and Abilities
Bachelors or Masters Degree in a Business, Economics, Supply Chain, Science, applied Mathematics, Engineering or related discipline.
Experience in conducting data analysis and building models using SQL, Excel, R, Python, SAS, SPSS, Alteryx, or equivalent software.
Expertise in data science libraries and familiarity with machine learning, participation in data science programs as part of college experience or work experience.
Knowledge or experience in retail or wholesale business is desirable.
Ability to be self-directed, prioritize opportunities, and perform multiple tasks
Ability to maintain demanding timelines.
Possess strong organizational skills and attention to detail.
Ability to establish and maintain effective working relationships with co-workers, managers, and customers.
Experience working for a retailer or consulting in a retail environment.
Experience with pricing.
Desire to learn with the motivation to continue to grow in this fast paced environment.
Work performed in typical office environment.
