Data Engineer
Are you an experienced, passionate pioneer in technology – a solutions builder, a roll-up-your-sleeves technologist who wants a daily collaborative environment, think-tank feel and share new ideas with your colleagues - without the extensive demands of travel?
Work you’ll do
A Data Engineer on this project will be responsible for leading the architecture and setup of an AWS hosted data lake as well as the ingestion pipeline and processing for 100+ datasets, working closely with Agile software development team(s). This role includes responsibilities such as creating and managing schedules for data management (migration, integration, etc.) efforts, working with clients to validate migrated data, working with Agile development teams to understand changes and their impacts towards data migration efforts, among other tasks.
The team
Analytics & Cognitive
In this age of disruption, organizations need to navigate the future with confidence by tapping into the power of data analytics, robotics, and cognitive technologies such as Artificial Intelligence. Our Strategy & Analytics portfolio helps clients leverage rigorous analytical capabilities and a pragmatic mindset to solve the most complex of problems. By joining our team, you will play a key role in helping to our clients uncover hidden relationships from vast troves of data and transforming the GPS marketplace.
Analytics & Cognitive will work with our clients to:
 Implement large-scale data ecosystems including data management, governance and the integration of structured and unstructured data to generate insights leveraging cloud-based platforms Leverage automation, cognitive and science-based techniques to manage data, predict scenarios and prescribe actions Drive operational efficiency by maintaining their data ecosystems, sourcing analytics expertise and providing As-a-Service offerings for continuous insights and improvements
Qualifications
Required:
 Ability to Obtain and Maintain a Government Security Clearance 5+ years relevant professional experience 3+ years data engineering, data management and transformation experience 3+ years experience with Amazon Web Services, Microsoft Azure and Python Bachelor's degree in Computer Science, Engineering, Mathematics or other business-related field
Preferred:
 5+ years of relevant technology consulting or industry experience Professional Amazon Cloud Architecture certification Prior professional services or federal consulting experience Ability to thrive in a fast-paced work environment with multiple stakeholders Ability to decompose a technical problem into its sub-components and build a plan to rigorously tackle the analysis that is defensible and repeatable High-performing team player
How you’ll grow
At Deloitte, our professional development plan focuses on helping people at every level of their career to identify and use their strengths to do their best work every day. From entry-level employees to senior leaders, we believe there’s always room to learn. We offer opportunities to help sharpen skills in addition to hands-on experience in the global, fast-changing business world. From on-the-job learning experiences to formal development programs at Deloitte University, our professionals have a variety of opportunities to continue to grow throughout their career. Explore Deloitte University, The Leadership Center.
Benefits
At Deloitte, we know that great people make a great organization. We value our people and offer employees a broad range of benefits. Learn more about what working at Deloitte can mean for you.
Deloitte’s culture
Our positive and supportive culture encourages our people to do their best work every day. We celebrate individuals by recognizing their uniqueness and offering them the flexibility to make daily choices that can help them to be healthy, centered, confident, and aware. We offer well-being programs and are continuously looking for new ways to maintain a culture where our people excel and lead healthy, happy lives. Learn more about Life at Deloitte.
Corporate citizenship
Deloitte is led by a purpose: to make an impact that matters. This purpose defines who we are and extends to relationships with our clients, our people and our communities. We believe that business has the power to inspire and transform. We focus on education, giving, skill-based volunteerism, and leadership to help drive positive social impact in our communities. Learn more about Deloitte’s impact on the world.
Recruiter tips
We want job seekers exploring opportunities at Deloitte to feel prepared and confident. To help you with your interview, we suggest that you do your research: know some background about the organization and the business area you’re applying to. Check out recruiting tips from Deloitte professionals.
